simStateSpace
================
Ivan Jacob Agaloos Pesigan

<!-- README.md is generated from .setup/readme/README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

<!-- badges: start -->

[![DOI](https://zenodo.org/badge/DOI/10.1037/met0000779.svg)](https://doi.org/10.1037/met0000779)
[![CRAN
Status](https://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/simStateSpace)](https://cran.r-project.org/package=simStateSpace)
[![R-Universe
Status](https://jeksterslab.r-universe.dev/badges/simStateSpace)](https://jeksterslab.r-universe.dev/simStateSpace)
[![Make
Project](https://github.com/jeksterslab/simStateSpace/actions/workflows/make.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/jeksterslab/simStateSpace/actions/workflows/make.yml)
[![R-CMD-check](https://github.com/jeksterslab/simStateSpace/actions/workflows/check-full.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/jeksterslab/simStateSpace/actions/workflows/check-full.yml)
[![R Package Test
Coverage](https://github.com/jeksterslab/simStateSpace/actions/workflows/test-coverage.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/jeksterslab/simStateSpace/actions/workflows/test-coverage.yml)
[![Lint R
Package](https://github.com/jeksterslab/simStateSpace/actions/workflows/lint.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/jeksterslab/simStateSpace/actions/workflows/lint.yml)
[![Package Website (GitHub
Pages)](https://github.com/jeksterslab/simStateSpace/actions/workflows/pkgdown-gh-pages.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/jeksterslab/simStateSpace/actions/workflows/pkgdown-gh-pages.yml)
[![Compile
LaTeX](https://github.com/jeksterslab/simStateSpace/actions/workflows/latex.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/jeksterslab/simStateSpace/actions/workflows/latex.yml)
[![Shell
Check](https://github.com/jeksterslab/simStateSpace/actions/workflows/shellcheck.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/jeksterslab/simStateSpace/actions/workflows/shellcheck.yml)
[![pages-build-deployment](https://github.com/jeksterslab/simStateSpace/actions/workflows/pages/pages-build-deployment/badge.svg)](https://github.com/jeksterslab/simStateSpace/actions/workflows/pages/pages-build-deployment)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/jeksterslab/simStateSpace/branch/main/graph/badge.svg?token=KVLUET3DJ6)](https://codecov.io/gh/jeksterslab/simStateSpace)
<!-- badges: end -->

## Description

Provides a streamlined and user-friendly framework for simulating data
in state space models, particularly when the number of subjects/units
(n) exceeds one, a scenario commonly encountered in social and
behavioral sciences. This package was designed to generate data for the
simulations performed in Pesigan, Russell, and Chow (2025:
<https://doi.org/10.1037/met0000779>).

## Installation

You can install the CRAN release of `simStateSpace` with:

``` r
install.packages("simStateSpace")
```

You can install the development version of `simStateSpace` from
[GitHub](https://github.com/jeksterslab/simStateSpace) with:

``` r
if (!require("remotes")) install.packages("remotes")
remotes::install_github("jeksterslab/simStateSpace")
```

## More Information

See [GitHub Pages](https://jeksterslab.github.io/simStateSpace) for
package documentation.

## Citation

To cite `simStateSpace` in publications, please cite Pesigan et al.
(2025).

## References

<div id="refs" class="references csl-bib-body hanging-indent"
entry-spacing="0" line-spacing="2">

<div id="ref-Chow-Ho-Hamaker-etal-2010" class="csl-entry">

Chow, S.-M., Ho, M. R., Hamaker, E. L., & Dolan, C. V. (2010).
Equivalence and differences between structural equation modeling and
state-space modeling techniques. *Structural Equation Modeling: A
Multidisciplinary Journal*, *17*(2), 303â€“332.
<https://doi.org/10.1080/10705511003661553>

</div>

<div id="ref-Pesigan-Russell-Chow-2025a" class="csl-entry">

Pesigan, I. J. A., Russell, M. A., & Chow, S.-M. (2025). Inferences and
effect sizes for direct, indirect, and total effects in continuous-time
mediation models. *Psychological Methods*.
<https://doi.org/10.1037/met0000779>

</div>

<div id="ref-RCoreTeam-2025" class="csl-entry">

R Core Team. (2025). *R: A language and environment for statistical
computing*. R Foundation for Statistical Computing.
<https://www.R-project.org/>

</div>

</div>
